This project was one I developed for my senior project last year. Basically, the purpose of the program is to color and combine multiple layers of pre-made textures automatically, then combine those images together to create a new sprite. The program then takes a collection of those newly made sprites, and organizes them into a new file known as a Resource Pack, which is used to change the textures of the 3D sandbox game, Minecraft. I have already finished working on its basic functionality, but there are a bunch of features that I still want to add. 

(Note: I'll will most likely rename the project during the development process.)


Tech
AWT Swing, I/O, New I/O, Image I/O\


Challenges
As for challenges, I am particularly worried about getting the sample feature -shows a sample of what the sprites will look like when run- to work. I tried to get it working before, but I ran out of time before I could. I hope to overcome this challenge by either searching up tutorials, or by using more modern tech, such as JavaFX. Another challenge I need to worry about is how I will convert the project into a .jar file. The program by itself works fine, but I wasn't able to get it as a .jar file, since it required inserting all the sprites into the resources file, which was a problem because I used the file that the sprite were stored in as a baseplate for the new pack. For overcoming this challenge, I can either manually move all resources into the file, and create a new way of building the new pack folder, or I could find some way to put the entire folder in the resources file, and still allow it to access the folder was a whole. 


Preliminary Timeline
1. Allow for switching between different sprite sets.
2. Add sample screen that shows what the colors will looks like on the finished sprite.
3. Add a simpler naming system.
4. Add an instruction screen that guides you through the process of using the application.
5. Allow for certain parts of the sprite to be removed or added.
6. Convert the project into a .jar file.
7. Customize the visuals of the program.
8. Allow for easy changes and modification.



User Requirements

Java 21 and Minecraft Java Edition


System Requirements
Here are the basic system requirements for running Minecraft Java edition. 

Minimum
OS: Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux OS.
RAM: 4GB
Processor: Intel Core i3-3210 / AMD A8-7600 CPU\
Graphics: Intel 

Recommended
OS: Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux OS.
RAM: 8GB
Processor: Intel Core i5-4690 / AMD A87600 APU 3.1 GHz
Graphics: NVIDIA GeForce 700 Series / AMD Radeon Rx 200 Series with OpenGL 4.5


Tool selection

IDE: Visual Studio Code
Version Control: GitHub
Build Tools: Maven
